INDIVIDUAL MEDISHIELD INSURANCE POLICY-POLICY WORDINGS
This Policy is evidence of the contract between You and Us. The Proposal along with any written statement(s),
declaration(s) of Yours for purpose of this Policy forms part of this contract.
This Policy witnesses that in consideration of Your having paid the premium for the period stated in the Schedule or
for any further period for which We may accept the payment for renewal of this Policy, We will insure the Insured
Person(s) and accordingly We will pay to You or to Insured Person(s) or their legal representatives as the case may
be, in respect of events occurring during the Period of Insurance in the manner and to the extent set-forth in the
Policy including endorsements, provided that all the terms, conditions, provisions, and exceptions of this Policy
insofar as they relate to anything to be done or complied with by You and/or Insured Person(s) have been met.
The Schedule shall form part of this Policy and the term Policy whenever used shall be read as including the Schedule.
Any word or expression to which a specific meaning has been attached in any part of this Policy or Schedule shall
bear such meaning whenever it may appear.
The Policy is based on information which have been given to Us about Insured Person(s) pertaining to risk insured
under the Policy and the truth of this information shall be condition precedent to Your or the Insured Person’s right
to recover under this Policy.
DEFINITION OF WORDS
1. Proposal means any signed proposal by filing up the questionnaires and declarations, written statements
and any information in addition thereto supplied to Us by You.
2. Policy means the Policy wording, the Schedule and any applicable endorsement or memoranda. The Policy
contains details of the extent of cover available to Insured Person(s), what is excluded from the cover and
the conditions on which the Policy is issued.
3. Schedule means latest Schedule issued by Us as part of the Policy. It provides details of the cover of Insured
Person(s) which are in force and the level of cover Insured Person(s) have.
4. Sum Insured means the monetary amount shown against each Insured Person.
5. We/Our/Us/Insurer means IFFCO-TOKIO GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
6. You/Your means the Person(s) named as Insured in the Schedule, including all Insured Persons
7. Insured Person means the Person(s) named as Insured Person(s) in the Schedule lodged with Us by You.
8. Period of Insurance means the duration of this Policy as shown in the Schedule.
9. Accident is a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent means.
10. Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely and directly caused by
external, violent and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a Medical Practitioner.
11. Alternative treatments are forms of treatments other than treatment "Allopathy" or "modern medicine"
and includes Ayurveda, Unani, Sidha and Homeopathy in the Indian context
12. Condition Precedent shall mean a policy term or condition upon which the Insurer's liability under the
policy is conditional upon.
13. Contribution is essentially the right of an insurer to call upon other insurers, liable to the same insured, to
share the cost of an indemnity claim on a ratable proportion of Sum Insured.
14. Day care centre means any institution established for day care treatment of illness and/ or injuries or a
medical setup within a hospital and which has been registered with the local authorities, wherever
applicable, and is under the supervision of a registered and qualified medical practitioner AND must comply
with all minimum criteria as under:
o has qualified nursing staff under its employment
o has qualified medical practitioner (s) in charge
o has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out
o maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the Insurance company’s
authorized personnel.
15. Day Care Treatment refers to medical treatment, and/or surgical procedure which is:
I. undertaken under General or Local Anesthesia in a hospital/day care centre in less than 24 hrs 1
because of technological advancement, and e
g
a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
II. Which would have otherwise required a hospitalization of more than 24 hours. Treatment
normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition.
The treatment will be considered to be taken under Hospitalization benefit for the processes listed as Day
Care Treatment in the Annexure attached to the Policy.
16. Dental Treatment is treatment carried out by a dental practitioner including examinations, fillings (where
appropriate), crowns, extractions and surgery excluding any form of cosmetic surgery/implants.
17. Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal
physiological function which manifests itself during the Policy Period and requires medical treatment.
a. Acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which
aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately before suffering the
disease/illness/injury which leads to full recovery.
b. Chronic condition is defined as a disease, illness, or injury that has one or more of the following
characteristics:—it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations,
check-ups, and / or tests—it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief o f symptoms— it
requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it—it continues
indefinitely—it comes back or is likely to come back.
18. Hospital means any institution established for in-patient care and day care treatment of illness and/or
injuries and which has been registered as a hospital with the local authorities under the Clinical
Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 or under the enactments specified under the
Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act OR complies with all minimum criteria as under:
--has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock;
--has at least 10 in-patient beds in towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and
at least 15 in-patient beds in all other places;
--has qualified medical practitioner(s) in charge round the clock;
--has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out;
--maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the insurance company’s
authorized personnel.
*Following are the enactments specified under the Schedule of section 56 of clinical Establishments
(Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 as of October 2013. Please refer to the act for amendments, if any.
1. The Andhra Pradesh Private Medical Care Establishments (Registration and
Regulation) Act, 2002.
2. The Bombay Nursing Homes Registration Act, 1949.
3. The Delhi Nursing Homes Registration Act, 1953.
4. The Madhya Pradesh Upcharya Griha Tatha Rujopchar Sanbabdu Sthapamaue
(Ragistrikaran Tatha Anugyapan) Adhiniyam, 1973.
5. The Manipur Homes and Clinics Registration Act, 1992.
6. The Nagaland Health Care Establishments Act, 1997.
7. The Orissa Clinical Establishments (Control and Regulation) Act, 1990.
8. The Punjab State Nursing Home Registration Act, 1991.
9. The West Bengal Clinical Establishments Act, 1950.
19. Congenital Anomaly refers to a condition(s) which is present since birth, and which is abnormal with
reference to form, structure or position.
i. Internal Congenital Anomaly : Anomaly which is not in the visible and accessible parts of the
body
ii. External Congenital Anomaly: Anomaly which is in the visible and accessible parts of the body.
20. Intensive Care Unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a hospital which is under the constant
supervision of a dedicated medical practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for the continuous
monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition, or require life support facilities and
where the level of care and supervision is considerably more sophisticated and intensive than in the
ordinary and other wards.
21. Inpatient Care means treatment for which the insured person has to stay in a hospital for more than 24
hours for a covered event.
22. Maternity Expenses shall include–
(a) Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and caesarean
sections incurred during hospitalization.
(b) Expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the Policy period. 2
23. Medical expenses means those expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and actually incurred for
e
medical treatment on account of Illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as g
a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
these are no more than would have been payable if the Insured Person had not been insured and no more
than other hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have charged for the same medical treatment.
24. Medical Advise means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issue of any
prescription or repeat prescription
25. Emergency Care means management for a severe illness or injury which results in symptoms which occur
suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a medical practitioner to prevent death or
serious long term impairment of the insured person’s health.
26. Grace Period means the specified period of time immediately following the premium due date during
which a payment can be made to renew or continue a policy in force without loss of continuity benefits
such as waiting periods and coverage of Pre- existing diseases. Coverage is not available for the period for
which no premium is received.
27. Hospitalization means admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of 24 Inpatient Care consecutive
hours except for specified procedures/ treatments, where such admission could be for a period of less
than 24 consecutive hours.
28. Medically Necessary –Medically necessary treatment is defined as any treatment, tests, medication, or
stay in hospital or part of a stay in hospital which
i. is required for the medical management of the illness or injury suffered by the insured;
ii. must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical
care in scope, duration, or intensity;
iii. must have been prescribed by a medical practitioner,
iv. Must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical practice or
by the medical community in India.
29. Any One Illness means continuous Period of illness and it includes relapse within 45 days from the date o f
last consultation with the Hospital/Nursing Home where treatment may have been taken.
30. Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses means Medical Expenses incurred immediately before the Insured
Person is Hospitalized, provided that:
i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s
Hospitalization was required, and
ii. The In-patient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance
Company.
31. Post Hospitalization Medical Expenses means Medical Expenses incurred immediately after the Insured
Person is discharged from the hospital, provided that:
i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s
Hospitalization was required, and
ii. The In-patient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance
Company
32. Notification of Claim is the process of notifying a claim to the Insurer or TPA by specifying the timelines as
well as the address / telephone number to which it should be notified.
33. Medical Practitioner is a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council of any State or
Medical Council of India or Council of Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the Government of
India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is
acting within the scope and jurisdiction of license. The registered Medical Practitioner should not be the
Insured or close family member.
34. OPD treatment means treatment in which the Insured visits a clinic / hospital or associated facility like a
consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a Medical Practitioner. The Insured
is not admitted as a day care or in-patient.
35. Portability means transfer by an individual health insurance policy holder (including family cover) of the
credit gained by the insured for pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions if he/she chooses to
switch from one insurer to another.
36. Qualified Nurse means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the
Nursing Council of any state in India
37. Domiciliary Hospitalization means medical treatment for an illness/disease/injury which in the normal
course would require care and treatment at a hospital but is actually taken while confined at home under
any of the following circumstances:
i. the condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed to a hospital
or
3
ii. the patient takes treatment at home on account of non availability of room in a hospital.
e
g
a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
38. Reasonable and Customary Charges means the charges for services or supplies, which are the standard
charges for the specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the geographical area for
identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of the illness / injury involved.
39. Pre-existing Disease means any condition, ailment or injury or related condition(s) for which you had
signs or symptoms, and / or were diagnosed, and / or received medical advice / treatment within 48
months prior to the first policy issued by the insurer
40. Renewal defines the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent with a
provision of grace period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of all waiting periods.
41. Room rent means the amount charged by a hospital for the occupancy of a bed on per day (24 hours)
basis and shall include associated medical expenses.
42. Subrogation shall mean the right of the insurer to assume the rights of the insured person to recover
expenses paid out under the policy that may be recovered from any other source.
43. Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required for treatment of
an illness or injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief of suffering
or prolongation of life, performed in a hospital or day care centre by a medical practitioner.
44. Cumulative Bonus Cumulative Bonus shall mean any increase in the sum insured granted by the insurer
without an associated increase in premium.
45. Critical Illness means any Disease or Major Injuries as defined under Item 46 to 59 below, which the
Insured Person is diagnosed to have suffered from and which requires Hospitalization.
46. Stroke Resulting In Permanent Symptoms any cerebrovascular incident producing permanent
neurological sequelae. This includes infarction of brain tissue, thrombosis in an intracranial vessel,
haemorrhage and embolisation from an extracranial source. Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist
medical practitioner and evidenced by typical clinical symptoms as well as typical findings in CT Scan or
MRI of the brain. Evidence of permanent neurological deficit lasting for at least 3 months has to be
produced.
The following are excluded:
i. Transient ischemic attacks (TIA)
ii. Traumatic injury of the brain
iii. Vascular disease affecting only the eye or optic nerve or vestibular functions.
47. Permanent Paralysis Of Limbs Total and irreversible loss of use of two or more limbs as a result of injury
or disease of the brain or spinal cord. A specialist medical practitioner must be of the opinion that the
paralysis will be permanent with no hope of recovery and must be present for more than 3 months.
48. Cancer of specified severity A malignant tumour characterised by the uncontrolled growth & spread of
malignant cells with invasion & destruction of normal tissues. This diagnosis must be supported by
histological evidence of malignancy & confirmed by a pathologist. The term cancer includes leukemia,
lymphoma and sarcoma.
The following are excluded -
i. Tumours showing the malignant changes of carcinoma in situ & tumours which are histologically
described as premalignant or non invasive, including but not limited to: Carcinoma in situ of
breasts, Cervical dysplasia CIN-1, CIN -2 & CIN-3.
ii. Any skin cancer other than invasive malignant melanoma
iii. All tumours of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a Gleason score
greater than 6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM classification T2N0M0.........
iv. Papillary micro - carcinoma of the thyroid less than 1 cm in diameter
v. Chronic lymphocyctic leukaemia less than RAI stage 3
vi. Microcarcinoma of the bladder
vii. All tumours in the presence of HIV infection.
49. Kidney Failure Requiring Regular Dialysis End stage renal disease presenting as chronic irreversible failure
of both kidneys to function, as a result of which either regular renal dialysis (hemodialysis or peritoneal
dialysis) is instituted or renal transplantation is carried out. Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist
medical practitioner.
50. First Heart Attack - Of Specified Severity The first occurrence of myocardial infarction which means the
death of a portion of the heart muscle as a result of inadequate blood supply to the relevant area. The
diagnosis for this will be evidenced by all of the following criteria:
a. a history of typical clinical symptoms consistent with the diagnosis of Acute Myocardial
Infarction (for e.g. typical chest pain)
b. new characteristic electrocardiogram changes 4
c. elevation of infarction specific enzymes, Troponins or other specific biochemical markers. e
g
a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
The Following are excluded:
a. Non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) with elevation of Troponin I or T
b. Other acute Coronary Syndromes
c. Any type of angina pectoris
51. Open Chest CABG The actual undergoing of open chest surgery for the correction of one or more coronary
arteries, which is/are narrowed or blocked, by coronary artery bypass graft (CABG). The diagnosis must be
supported by a coronary angiography and the realization of surgery has to be confirmed by a specialist
medical practitioner.
The following are excluded:
i. Angioplasty and/or any other intra-arterial procedures
ii. any key-hole or laser surgery.
52. Open Heart Replacement Or Repair Of Heart Valves The actual undergoing of open-heart valve surgery is
to replace or repair one or more heart valves, as a consequence of defects in, abnormalities of, or disease-
affected cardiac valve(s). The diagnosis of the valve abnormality must be supported by an
echocardiography and the realization of surgery has to be confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner.
Catheter based techniques including but not limited to, balloon alvotomy/valvuloplasty are excluded.
53. Major Organ /Bone Marrow Transplant
I. The actual undergoing of a transplant of:
i. One of the following human organs: heart, lung, liver, kidney, pancreas, that resulted from
irreversible end-stage failure of the relevant organ, or
ii. Human bone marrow using haematopoietic stem cells. The undergoing of a transplant has to be
confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner.
II. The following are excluded:
a. Other stem-cell transplants
b. Where only islets of langerhans are transplanted
54. Motor Neurone Disease With Permanent Symptoms Motor neurone disease diagnosed by a specialist
medical practitioner as spinal muscular atrophy, progressive bulbar palsy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or
primary lateral sclerosis. There must be progressive degeneration of corticospinal tracts and anterior horn
cells or bulbar efferent neurons. There must be current significant and permanent functional neurological
impairment with objective evidence of motor dysfunction that has persisted for a continuous period of at
least 3 months.
55. Major Injuries means accidental bodily injuries caused by external, violent and visible cause leading to loss
of limbs i.e. physical separation or permanent and total loss of use of one or more hand, foot or eye
within 12 months from the date of injury
56. End Stage Liver Disease means an irreversible chronic alteration of the hepatic parenchyma or the biliary
ductal system resulting in a life threatening liver dysfunction. The above coverage is excluded if the etiology
of the disease is due to chronic alcohol consumption or any self inflicted toxic or drug consumption.
57. Major Burns means an injury due to any form of burn touching one third or more of the body area causing
loss of soft tissue and resulting in impairment or loss of function of the injured organ.
58. Coma Of Specified Severity
I. A state of unconsciousness with no reaction or response to external stimuli or internal needs. This
diagnosis must be supported by evidence of all of the following:
i. no response to external stimuli continuously for at least 96 hours;
ii. life support measures are necessary to sustain life; and
iii. Permanent neurological deficit which must be assessed at least 30 days after the onset of the
coma.
II. The condition has to be confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner. Coma resulting directly from
alcohol or drug abuse is excluded.
59. Multiple Sclerosis With Persisting Symptoms
I. The definite occurrence of multiple sclerosis. The diagnosis must be supported by all of the following:
i. investigations including typical MRI and CSF findings, which unequivocally confirm the
diagnosis to be multiple sclerosis;
ii. there must be current clinical impairment of motor or sensory function, which must have
persisted for a continuous period of at least 6 months, and
iii. well documented clinical history of exacerbations and remissions of said symptoms or
neurological deficits with at least two clinically documented episodes at least one month apart.
II. Other causes of neurological damage such as SLE and HIV are excluded. 5
60. Optional Extension means optional coverage which is available to You apart from the Basic Cover under e
g
the Policy, which You can choose to take on payment of necessary additional premium. a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
61. Third Party Administrator means any person who is licensed under IRDA (Third Party Administrators -
Health Services) Regulations,2001 by the Authority and is engaged for a fee or remuneration by an
insurance company, for the purpose of providing health services.
62. Network Provider means hospitals or health care providers enlisted by an insurer or by a TPA and insurer
together to provide medical services to an insured on payment by a cashless facility.
63. Non- Network means any hospital, day care centre or other provider that is not part of the network.
64. Emergency Assistance Service Provider means the licensed entity which will provide identified
Emergency Medical Assistance and Personal Services to people travelling more than 150 kilometers from
their declared place of residence in India
65. Medical Assistance Services means the stipulated medical services offered by Emergency Assistance
Service Provider during a medical emergency situation while You are away from home, consisting of
medical consultation and evaluation, medical referrals, medical evacuation and medically supervised
repatriation.
66. Personal Services means the other emergency services offered by Emergency Assistance Service Provider
during a medical emergency situation while You are away from home, consisting of message transmission,
care of minor children left unattended due to medical incident, return of mortal remains, prescription
assistance, and legal and interpreter referrals transportation to join patient and emergency cash
coordination.
67. Terrorism/Terrorist Incident means any actual or threatened use of force or violence directed at or
causing damage, injury, harm or disruption, or the commission of an act dangerous to human life or
property, against any individual, property or government, with the stated or unstated objective of
pursuing economic, ethnic, nationalistic, political, racial or religious interests, whether such interests are
declared or not. Robberies or other criminal acts, primarily committed for personal gain and acts arising
primarily from prior personal relationships between perpetrator(s) and victim(s) shall not be considered
terrorist activity. Terrorism shall also include any act, which is verified or recognized by the relevant
Government as an act of terrorism.
68. Unproven/Experimental treatment is treatment including drug experimental therapy which is not based
on established medical practice in India, is treatment experimental or unproven.
69. New Born Baby means baby born during the Policy Period and is aged between 1 day and 90 days, both
days inclusive.
70. Deductible is a cost-sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that the Insurer
will not be liable for a specified rupee amount in case of indemnity policies and for specified number of
days/hours in case of hospital cash policies which will apply before any benefits are payable by the insurer.
A deductible does not reduce the sum insured.
71. Co-payment is a cost-sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that the
policyholder/insured will bear a specified percentage of the admissible claim amount. A co-payment does
not reduce the sum insured.
72. Cashless facility means a facility extended by the insurer to the insured where the payments, o f the costs
of treatment undergone by the insured in accordance with the policy terms and conditions, are directly
made to the network provider by the insurer to the extent pre-authorization approved.
BASIC COVER
WHAT IS COVERED WHAT IS NOT COVERED
If the Insured Person sustains any Injury or contracts any WE will not pay for
Disease and if Medically necessary, he/she has to incur 1. Any condition(s) defined as Pre - existing
Hospitalization expenses, then We will pay Reasonable Disease in the Policy, until 36 months of
and Customary Charges of the following Hospitalization continuous coverage have elapsed, since
expenses: inception of the first Policy with Us. This
1. Room, Boarding and Nursing Expense as provided in exclusion will also apply to any complications
the Hospital/Nursing Home subject to following arising from Pre- existing
limits. Condition/ailment/disease/ injuries. Such
a) Sub limit per day for normal Room expenses: 1.0% complications will be considered as a part of
of Basic Sum Insured. the Pre-existing health condition for disease.
b) Sub limit per day for Intensive Care/Therapeutic Unit 2. Any expense on Hospitalization/Domiciliary
expenses: 2.5% of Basic Sum Insured. Hospitalization for any Disease which incepts
c) Registration, Service Charges, Surcharge and any during first 30 days of commencement of this
6
other similar charges of Hospital / Nursing Home: Insurance cover. This exclusion shall not apply
Actuals subject to a maximum of 0.5% of Basic Sum in case of the Insured Person having been e
g
Insured. covered under this Policy or Individual Medical a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
Insurance Policy with any of Indian Insurance
2. Medical Practitioner/ Anesthetist, Consultant fees. Companies for a continuous period of
preceding 12 months without a break
3. Expenses on Anesthesia, Blood, Oxygen, Operation exceeding 30 days.
Theatre, Surgical Appliances, Medicines and Drugs, 3. Any expense incurred in the first year of
Diagnostic Materials and X-ray, Dialysis, operation of the insurance cover on treatment
Chemotherapy, Radiotherapy, Cost of Pacemaker, of the following Diseases :
Artificial Limbs, Cost of Organ and similar expenses.  Cataract, Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy,
Hysterectomy for Menorrhagia or Fibromyoma
4. Expenses on Vitamins and Tonics only if forming part  Hernia, Hydrocele, Congenital Internal Disease.
of treatment as certified by the attending Medical  Fistula in anus, Piles, Sinusitis
Practitioner.  Choletithiasis and Cholecystectomy
However if these Disease are Pre-Existing at
5. The above stated relevant expenses incurred for the time of the first Proposal then they will be
Domiciliary Hospitalization is Medically Necessary falling under Exclusion (1) and will be covered
and at Reasonable and Customary Charges upto a after three continuous year of insurance with
maximum aggregate sub-limit of 20% of the Basic Us.
Sum Insured. This exclusion shall not apply in case of the Insured
Person having been covered under this Policy or
6 An additional Daily Allowance amount equivalent to Individual Medical Insurance Policy with any of
0.1% of the Basic Sum Insured or Rs. 250/- per day Indian Insurance Companies for a continuous period
whichever is less, for the duration of Hospitalization of preceding 12 months without a break exceeding
towards defraying of miscellaneous expenses. 30 days.
4. Injury or Diseases directly or indirectly caused
7. Ambulance charges in connection with any by or arising from or attributable to war,
admissible claim limited to 1.0% of the Basic Sum invasion, act of foreign enemy, war like
Insured or Rupees 1500/- whichever is less for each operation (whether war be declared or
claim. not).Circumcision, unless necessary for the
treatment of a Disease not otherwise excluded
8. Ayurvedic hospitalization expenses including Pre- or required as a result of accidental bodily
Hospitalization and Post Hospitalization expenses injury, vaccination unless forming part of post-
shall be limited to 10% of the Basic Sum Insured bite treatment, inoculation, cosmetic or
of the Insured person per year. aesthetic treatment of any description
(including any complications arising thereof),
Note plastic surgery except those relating to
treatment of Injury or Disease .
1. 1. The Hospitalization expenses incurred for treatment of 5. Cost of spectacles and contact lens or hearing
any one illness under package charges of the aids.
Hospital/Nursing Home will be restricted to 80% of 6. Dental treatment or surgery of any kind, unless
the package in hospitals outside the Preferred requiring Hospitalization.
Provider Network. 7. Convalescence, general debility, run down
condition or rest cure, congenital disease or
2. Hospitalization expenses of person donating an organ defects or anomalies, sterility, venereal
during the course of organ transplant will also be disease, intentional self injury and use of
payable subject to the above sub limits applicable to intoxicating drugs/alcohols.
the Insured Person and within the overall Sum Insured 8. Any expense on treatment related to HIV, AIDS
(Basic plus Optional Extension, if applicable) of the and all related medical conditions.
Insured Person. For the Donor, no payment will be 9. Expenses on Diagnostic, X-Ray, or Laboratory
made towards Ambulance charges, Pre and Post examinations unless related to the active
Hospitalization expenses and Daily Allowance. treatment of Disease or Injury falling within
3. Pre-Hospitalization and Post Hospitalization expenses ambit of Hospitalization or Domiciliary
for 60 days respectively as defined under the Policy Hospitalization claim.
will also be reimbursed along with the aforesaid 10. Expenses on treatment arising from or
Hospitalization expenses subject to the overall Sum traceable to pregnancy (other than ectopic
Insured (Basic plus Optional Extension, if applicable) pregnancy), childbirth, miscarriage, abortion or
limit of the Insured Person. Any Nursing expenses complications of any of these, including
during Pre and Post Hospitalization will be considered caesarean section and any infertility, sub
only if Qualified Nurse is employed and is Medically fertility or assisted conception treatment. 7
Necessary for the duration specified. 11. Any expense on Injury or Diseases directly or e
g
4. For the purpose of determining the sub-limits of indirectly caused by or contributed to by a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
expenses for Room/ Boarding/Nursing, Domiciliary nuclear weapons/material.
Hospitalization, Daily Allowance and Ambulance 12. Any expense on Injury and Diseases directly or
charges as detailed under Item (1), (5), (6) and (7) indirectly caused by or contributed to by an act
above, the specified percentages will be applied on of Terrorism/Terrorist Incident.
the Basic Sum Insured only and not on the Cumulative 13. Any expense on treatment of Insured Person
Bonus amount or Optional Extension (Critical Illness) as outpatient in a Hospital.
Sum Insured amount. 14. Any expense on naturopathy, experimental or
5. Cumulative Bonus: The Basic Sum Insured under the alternative medicine, However, this exclusion
Policy shall be increased by 5% of the Basic Sum shall not apply to Ayurvedic treatment
Insured at each renewal in respect of each claim free necessitating Hospitalization, and taken at the
year of insurance, subject to maximum of 50% of the Ayurvedic Hospitals.
Insured Person’s Basic Sum Insured of the expiring 15. Any expense on procedure and treatment
Policy. The Optional Extension (Critical Illness) Sum including acupressure, acupuncture, magnetic
Insured is not eligible for any Cumulative Bonus and such other therapies etc.
For Cumulative Bonus eligibility, the Policy has to be 16. Travel or transportation expenses, other than
renewed within the expiry date or within a maximum Ambulance service charges.
of 30 days from the expiry date, beyond which the 17. Any expense related to Disease/Injury suffered
entire Cumulative Bonus earned will lapse and be whilst engaged in speed contest or racing of
forfeited. Any Medishield Insurance cover thereafter any kind (other than on foot), bungee jumping,
will be treated as a fresh cover for the purposes of the parasailing, ballooning, parachuting, skydiving,
Pre-existing Condition, 30 days Waiting Period and paragliding, hang gliding, mountain or rock
First Year Disease Exclusions. climbing necessitating the use of guides or
In case of a claim under the Policy in respect of any ropes, deep sea diving using hard helmet and
Insured Person who has earned Cumulative Bonus, the breathing apparatus, polo, snow and ice sports
existing Cumulative Bonus will be reduced by 5% of and activities of similar hazard.
Basic Sum Insured at the next renewal, subject to the 18. External medical equipment of any kind used
stipulation that Basic Sum Insured shall be at home as post hospitalization care, like
maintained. wheelchairs, crutches, instruments used in
6. Cost of Health Check Up: Insured Person shall be treatment of sleep apnea syndrome (C.P.A.P)
entitled for reimbursement of cost of medical checkup or continuous peritoneal ambulatory dialysis
once at the end of a block of every four claim-free (C.P.A.D) and oxygen concentrator for
Policies. The reimbursement shall not exceed the bronchial asthmatic condition, etc.
amount equal to 1% of the average Basic Sum Insured 19. Genetic disorders and stem cell implantation/
during the block of four claim free Policies surgery.
7..The amounts payable under Item (2) and (3) of ‘What 20. All non medical expenses including personal
is Covered’ shall be at the rate applicable to the comfort and convenience items or services,
entitled room category. In case You opt for a room such as telephone, aya/ barber or beauty
with expenses higher than the entitled category as services, diet charges, baby food, cosmetics,
under 1(a), the charges payable under (2) and (3) napkins, toiletry items etc, guest services and
shall be limited to the charges applicable to the similar incidental expenses or services etc..
entitled category or (where the charges applicable are 21. Treatment of obesity or condition arising there
not specified) in the same proportion as the charges from (including morbid obesity) and any other
applicable for entitled room category bears to charges weight control programme, services or
applicable for higher room category. supplies etc, hormone replacement therapy,
sex change or treatment which results from or
. is in any way related to sex change.
22. Any expense under Domiciliary Hospitalization
for
 Pre and Post Hospitalization treatment
 Treatment of following diseases:
i. Asthma
ii. Bronchitis
iii. Chronic Nephritis and Nephritic Syndrome
iv. Diarrhoea and all type of Dysenteries
including Gastro-enteritis
v. Diabetes Mellitus
vi. Epilepsy
vii. Hypertension 8
viii. Influenza, Cough and Cold e
g
ix. All types of Psychiatric or Psychosomatic a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
Disorders
x. Pyrexia of unknown origin for less than 15
days
xi. Tonsillitis and Upper Respiratory Tract
infection including Laryngitis and
Pharingitis
xii. Arthritis, Gout and Rheumatism
xiii. Dental Treatment or Surgery
OPTIONAL EXTENSION
I. Critical Illness
1. If the Insured Person be diagnosed during the Period of Insurance as suffering from a Critical Illness as
defined under the Policy, We shall reimburse Medically Necessary and Reasonable and Customary Charges
incurred on expenses as listed under ‘What Is Covered’ upto an additional Sum Insured limit stipulated for
the Insured Person in the Policy Schedule (equal to his/her Basic Cover Sum Insured).
2. The additional Sum Insured available for Critical Illness under this Optional Extension cover will not qualify
for Cumulative Bonus or for the limit for Room/ Board/ Nursing, Domiciliary Hospitalization, Daily
Allowance, Ambulance expenses and Cost of Health Check Up as stipulated under “What is Covered” of the
Policy.
3. The other terms of coverage (What is Covered/ Not Covered) as detailed under Basic Cover will remain
unaltered for this Optional Extension coverage
EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE SERVICES
This Policy provides You, at no additional cost, whatsoever, a host of value added Emergency Medical
Assistance and Emergency Personal Services as described below .The services are provided by Emergency
Assistance Service Provider when You are traveling within India 150 kilometers or more away from Your
residential address as mentioned in the Policy Schedule for less than 90 days. All services will be
arranged by Emergency Assistance Service Provider only. No claims for reimbursement of expenses
incurred for services arranged by You will be entertained.
1. Medical Consultation, Evaluation and Referral: You have access to an Operations Center with multilingual
medical staff on duty 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Medical personnel are available for medical
consultation, evaluation and referrals to qualified physicians.
2. Emergency Medical Evacuation: If You have a medical emergency and an adequate medical facility is not
available (as determined by the Emergency Assistance Service Provider’s Physician and the Consulting
Physician) proximate to where You are located, Emergency Assistance Service Provider will arrange an
emergency evacuation, with medical supervision, by an appropriate means to the nearest medical facility
capable of providing the required care.
3. Medical Repatriation: When medically necessary, as determined by the Emergency Assistance Service
Provider’s Physician and the Consulting Physician, repatriation under medical supervision to Your address
as mentioned in the Policy Schedule at such time as You are medically cleared for travel via commercial
carrier, provided the repatriation can be accomplished without compromising Your medical condition. If
the time period to receive medical clearance to travel by common carrier exceeds fourteen days from the
date of discharge from the hospital, an appropriate mode of transportation may be arranged, such as an air
ambulance. Medical or non-medical escorts may be provided as necessary.
4. Transportation to Join Patient: Provide a designated family member or personal friend with an economy,
round-trip, common carrier transportation to the major airport closest to the place of hospitalization,
provided You have travelled alone and You are required to be hospitalized for more than seven consecutive
days. At Your request, Emergency Assistance Service Provider will also provide assistance with
arrangements for the family member or the friend’s accommodation. It is the responsibility of the family
member or the friend to meet all documentary requirements for the travel and accommodation costs.
5. Care and/or Transportation of Minor Children: When Your minor child(ren) is left unattended as a result
of Your medical situation, Emergency Assistance Service Provider will provide the child with transportation
to home or to the home of a person designated by You living in the same city as Your address . If
appropriate, an attendant will escort the child.
6. Emergency Message Transmission: Emergency Assistance Service Provider will receive and transmit
emergency messages to/from home.
7. Return of Mortal Remains: In the event of death of Insured Person, Emergency Assistance Service
Provider will arrange and pay for the return of mortal remains. Emergency Assistance Service Provider will 9
render any assistance necessary in the transport including locating a local, Emergency Assistance funeral e
g
home, mortuary or direct disposition facility to prepare the body for transport, completing all a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
documentation, obtaining all legal clearances, providing death certificates, purchasing the minimally
necessary casket or air transport container, as well as transporting the remains, including retrieval from site
of death and delivery to receiving funeral home.
8. Emergency Cash Coordination: Emergency Assistance Service Provider will assist in coordinating the
transfer of emergency cash. Source of funds is solely Your responsibility
Conditions: The Emergency Assistance Services are available subject to certain limited exclusions as set
forth below:
Emergency Assistance Service Provider will not provide services in the following instances:
 Travel undertaken specifically for securing medical treatment
 Services sought outside India.
 Injuries resulting from participation in acts of war or insurrection
 Commission of unlawful act(s) with malafide intent.
 Attempt at suicide /self inflicted injuries
 Incidents involving the use of drugs, unless prescribed by a physician
 Transfer of the Insured Person from one medical facility to another medical facility of similar
capabilities and providing a similar level of care
Emergency Assistance Service Provider will not evacuate or repatriate an Insured Person in the following
instances:
 Without medical authorization
 With mild lesions, simple injuries such as sprains, simple fractures, or mild sickness which can be
treated by local doctors and do not prevent You from continuing Your trip or returning home
 With a pregnancy term of over six months
 With mental or nervous disorders unless hospitalized
Specific Exclusions:
 Trips exceeding 90 days from declared residence without prior notification to Emergency Assistance
Service Provider.
 Students at home/school campus address (as they are not considered to be in travel status)
Legal actions arising hereunder shall be barred unless written notice thereof is received by Us / Emergency
Assistance Service Provider within one (1) year from the date of event giving rise to such legal action.
While assistance services are available all over India, transportation response time is directly related to the
location/jurisdiction where an event occurs. We/ Emergency Assistance Service Provider are not
responsible for failing to provide services or for delays in the delivery of services caused by strikes or
conditions beyond our / their control, including by way of example and not by limitation, weather
conditions, availability of airports, flight conditions, availability of hyperbaric chambers, communications
systems or where rendering of service is limited or prohibited by local law or edict.
All consulting physicians and attorneys are independent contractors and not under Our control or of
Emergency Assistance Service Provider. We/ Emergency Assistance Service Provider are not responsible
or liable for any malpractice committed by professionals rendering services to You.
You must reimburse Emergency Assistance Service Provider for any service rendered upon request,that is
beyond the scope of this Policy. The liability to pay for such service and the charge applicable will be
informed to You prior to provision of such service.
We shall not be held liable or responsible for any acts or omissions by Emergency Assistance Service
Provider in connection with or arising from the rendering of services described above.
GENERAL CONDITIONS
1. Conditions Precedent- Where this Policy requires You/your family member(s) named in the Schedule to do
or not to do something, then the complete satisfaction of that requirement by You or someone claiming on
Your behalf is a precondition to any obligation We have under this Policy. If You or someone claiming on
Your behalf fails to completely satisfy that requirement, then We may refuse to consider Your claim.
0
You/your family member(s) named in the schedule will cooperate with Us at all times.
2. Reasonable Precaution: You shall take all reasonable precaution to prevent injury, illness, and disease in
1
order to minimise claims. e
g
a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
3. Notice: You will give every notice and communication in writing to Our office through which this insurance
is effected.
4. Disclosure to information norm:. The Policy shall be void and all premium paid by You to Us be forfeited in
the event of untrue or incorrect statements, misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any
material fact.
5. Changes in Circumstances: You must inform Us, as soon as reasonably possible of any change in information
You have provided to Us about Insured Person(s) which may affect the insurance cover provided.
6. Payment of Premium: The premium payable shall be paid in advance before commencement of risk. No
receipt for premium shall be valid except on Our official form signed by Our duly authorized official. In
similar way, no waiver of any terms, provision, conditions and endorsements of this Policy shall be valid
unless made in writing and signed by Our authorized official.
7. Free Look Period: Policy has a free look period which shall be applicable at the inception of the policy and
i. The insured will be allowed a period of at least 15 days from the date of receipt of the Policy to review
the terms and conditions of the Policy and to return the same if not acceptable;
ii, If the insured has not made any claim during the free look period, the insured shall be entitled to-
a. A refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the insurer on medical examination of the
insured persons and the stamp duty charges or;
b. Where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the policy is exercised by the
policyholder, a deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period on cover or ;
c. Where only a part of the risk has commenced, such proportionate risk premium commensurate with
the risk covered during such period.
8. Claim Procedure and Requirements :
Notification of Claim: An event which might become a claim under the Policy must be reported to Us at
least 72 hours before hospitalization, except in case of emergency Hospitalizations in which case it must be
reported as soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours from the time of Hospitalization in any case.
a. A written statement of the claim will be required and a Claim Form will have to be completed. The claim
must be filed along with all supporting documents within 30 days from the date of discharge from the
Hospital or completion of treatment, except in extreme cases of hardship where it is proved to Our
satisfaction that under the circumstances in which You / Insured Person or Your/his or her personal
representative were placed, it was not possible for any one of You to give notice or file claim within the
prescribed time limit. In such case the claim should be duly filed with Us within 90 days from the date of
discharge from Hospital, otherwise the claim shall not be entertained.
b. Queries raised, if any on such claim submitted by You should be satisfactorily responded with supporting
documents within 15 days from the date of query.You must submit all original bills, receipts, certificates,
information and evidences from the attending Medical Practitioner/Hospital/Chemist/Laboratory as
required by Us in the manner and form as We may prescribe. In such claims, Our representative shall be
allowed to carry out examination and obtain information on any alleged Injury or Disease requiring
Hospitalization, if and when We may reasonably require.
c. In case You / Insured Person does not comply with the provisions of this clause or other obligations cast
upon You / Insured Person under this Policy or in any of the Policy documents, all benefit under the Policy
shall be forfeited, at Our option.
9. Position after a claim: As from the day of receipt of the claim amount by You / Insured Person, the Sum
Insured for the remainder of the Period of insurance shall stand reduced by a corresponding amount.
10. Fraud: If a claim is fraudulent in any respect or supported by any fraudulent statement or device with or
without Your knowledge or that of the Insured Person, all benefit(s) under this Policy shall be forfeited.
11. Electronic Transaction: You /Insured Person agrees to adhere to and comply with all such terms and
conditions as We may prescribe from time to time and hereby agrees and confirms that all transactions
effected by or through facilities for conducting remote transactions including the internet, world wide web,
Electronic data interchange, call centres, teleservice operations (whether voice, video, data or combination
thereof)or by means of electronic, computer, automated machines network or through other means of
telecommunication established by or on behalf of Us for and in respect of the Policy or its terms or Our
other products and services, shall constitute legally binding and valid transactions when done in adherence
to and in compliance with Our terms and conditions for such facilities, as may be prescribed from time to
time. However the terms of the condition shall not override provisions of any law(s) or statutory
regulations including provisions of IRDA regulations for protection of policy holder's interests.
12. No Constructive Notice: Any knowledge or information of any circumstances or condition in connection
with You / Insured Person, in possession of any of Our official shall not be the notice to or be held to bind 1
or prejudicially affect Us notwithstanding subsequent acceptance of the premium. 1
13. Contribution: If, when any claim arises, there is in existence any other Insurance (other than Cancer e
g
Insurance Policy) covering the same loss/liability, compensation, costs or expenses, We will pay only Our a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
ratable proportion of the claim. The benefits under this Policy shall be in excess of the benefits available
under Cancer Insurance Policy.
14. Subrogation :
a) You shall do or concur in doing or permit to be done everything necessary for the purpose of enforcing
any civil or criminal rights and remedies or obtaining relief or indemnity from other parties to which We
shall be or would become entitled or subrogated upon Our paying any claim under this Policy, whether
before or after indemnification;
b) You shall not do or cause to be done anything that may cause any prejudice of Our right of Subrogation;
c) You agree that any recoveries made shall first be applied in making good any sums paid out by or on
behalf of Us for the claim and the costs of recovery.
15. Renewal : The Policy may be renewed by mutual consent every year and in such event, the renewal
premium shall be paid to Us on or before the date of expiry of the Policy or of the subsequent renewal
thereof. However, We shall not be bound to give notice that such renewal premium is due, provided
however that if You apply for renewal and remits the requisite premium before the expiry of this Policy,
renewal shall not normally refused, unless We have reasonable justification to do so.
The Policy has to be renewed within the expiry date or within a Grace Period of 30 days from the expiry
date, beyond which the continuity benefits (relating to Pre-existing Disease Exclusion, 30 days Waiting
Period, First Year Disease Exclusions and Cumulative Bonus earning) will not be available and any
insurance cover thereafter will be treated as fresh cover.
In any case, We shall not be liable to pay claim occurring during the period of break in insurance.
16. Cancellation: We will not ordinarily cancel the policy unless it is a case of mis-representation, concealment
of material fact or fraudulent act of insured. In case of cancellation of the policy due to above reasons,
policy shall be void and all premium paid hereon shall be forfeited to the Company and the same shall be
communicated to you by sending a 15 (Fifteen) notice by registered Post to your last known address
You may cancel the Policy by sending at least 15(Fifteen) days written Notice to Us under Registered Post.
We will then allow a refund on following scale provided there is no claim. Where claim is preferred, no
refund will be made.
Period of Cover upto Refund of Annual Premium Rate(%)
1 Month 75%
3 Month 50%
6 Month 25%
Exceeding Six Months NIL
.
17. Notice of Charge: We will not be bound to take cognizance or be affected by any notice of trust, charge,
lien, assignment or other dealings with or relating to this Policy. Your receipt or receipt of Insured Person
shall in all cases be an effective discharge to Us.
18. Arbitration: If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid under the policy (liability
being otherwise admitted) such difference shall independently of all other questions be referred to the
decision of the sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the parties to or if they cannot agree upon a
single arbitrator within 30 days of any party invoking arbitration the same shall be referred to a panel of 3
arbitrators, comprising of 2 arbitrators, 1 to be appointed by each of the parties to the dispute/difference
and the 3rd arbitrator to be appointed by 2 such arbitrators and arbitration shall be conducted under and
in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996
It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or dispute shall be referable to arbitration as herein
before provided, if We have disputed or not accepted liability under or in respect of this Policy.
It is understood, however, that the Insured shall have the right at all times during currency of the Policy to
communicate only, with the leading or issuing office in all matters pertaining to this insurance.
19. Policy Disputes: The parties to this Policy expressly agree that the laws of the Republic of India shall govern
the validity, construction, interpretation and effect of this Policy. Any dispute concerning the interpretation
of the terms and conditions, limitations and/or exclusions contained herein is understood and agreed to by
both the Insured and the Company to be subject to Indian law. All matters arising hereunder shall be
determined in accordance with the law and practice of such Court within Indian territory
20. Disclaimer Clause If we shall disclaim our liability for any claim and such claim shall not have been made
subject matter of suit in a court of law within 12 months from date of disclaimer, then the claim shall for all
purpose be deemed to have been abandoned and shall not thereafter be recoverable under this Policy.
21. Protection of Policy Holder’s Interest:- In the event of a claim, if the same is found admissible under the 2
Policy, we shall make an offer of settlement or convey the rejection of the claim within 30 days of receipt 1
of all relevant documents and Investigation/ Assessment Report (if required). In case the claim is admitted, e
g
the claim proceeds shall be paid within 7 days of Your acceptance of Our offer. In case of delay in payment, a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
we shall be liable to pay interest at a rate which is 2.0% (two percent) above the Bank rate prevalent at the
beginning of financial year in which the claim is received by Us.
22. The geographical scope of this Policy will be India and all claims shall be payable in Indian currency.
23. The Emergency Assistance Services-Medical and Personal are not available on reimbursement basis.
24. The provision of the Emergency Medical or Personal Assistance Services to You during the Period of
Insurance by Emergency Assistance Service Provider does not necessarily mean that the hospitalization
claim is admissible under the Policy.
25. Grievance or Complaint: You may register a grievance or complaint by visiting our Website www.itgi.co.in .
You may also contact the Branches from where You have bought the policy or Grievance Officer who can
be reached at our Corporate Office.
26. Alteration of Policy Conditions: The policy terms and conditions may undergo alteration as per the IRDA
Health Regulation. However the same shall be duly notified to you at least three months prior to the date
when such alteration or revision comes into effect by registered post at your last declared correspondence
address. The timeliness for revision in terms and rates shall be as per the IRDA Health Regulation.
27. Withdrawal of Policy: This product may be withdrawn with the prior approval of the Authority and
information of withdrawal shall be given to you in advance as per the IRDA guidelines with details of options
provided by us. If we do not receive your response on the intimation of withdrawal, the existing product
shall be withdrawn on the renewal date and you shall have to take a new policy available with us, subject to
portability conditions.
28. Portability
a. Portability shall be granted only to the Insured Person/s who is/are presently covered and were
continuously covered without any lapses under any other similar health insurance plan with
equivalent Deductible with an Indian Non life/Health insurer in the past.
b. In case portability is granted by us the proviso’s regarding the waiting periods specified under
Exclusion Nos 1,2 and 3 of the Policy stand modified as under in respect of such insured persons
granted with portability.
i. The waiting periods shall be reduced by the number of continuous preceding years of
coverage of the Insured Person under the previous health insurance policy/Policies; AND
ii. If the proposed Sum Insured for a proposed Insured Person is more than the Sum
Insured applicable under the previous health insurance policy, then the reduced waiting
period shall apply only to the extent of the Sum Insured under the previous health
insurance policy.
iii. The reduction in the waiting period specified above shall be only if We have received the
database and claim history from the previous Indian insurance company;
iv. We shall consider only completed years of coverage for waiver of waiting periods. Policy
extensions if any sought during or for the purpose of porting insurance policy shall not
be considered for waiting period waiver
29. Insurance Ombudsman: If You are not satisfied with any issue pertaining to the insurance, You can
approach the Insurance Ombudsman in the respective area for resolving the issue. The contact details of
the Ombudsman offices is mentioned below:
Jurisdiction Office Address
First Floor, Universal Insurance Building, 2/2A Asaf Ali Road,
Delhi, Rajasthan
New Delhi 110002 Ph:23239611 /33 Fax: 23230858
West Bengal, Bihar 29, N.S. Road, Third Floor, Kolkata Ph:222 12669 Fax: 222 12668
Jeevan Seva Annex, 3rd floor, Above MTNL, SV Road, Santacruz
Maharashtra
(W) Mumbai 400 054
Fatima Akhtar Court, Fourth Floor, 312 Anna Salai, Chennai
Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry
600018
6-2-47, Yeturu Towers, A.C. Guards Lakdi-Ka-Pool, Hyderabad
Andhra Pradesh
500004
3
1
Second Floor, Shree Jayshree Ambica House, 5, Navyug College,
Gujarat
Ashram Road, Ahmedabad 380014 e
g
a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
Kerala, Karnataka Pulinat Building, Second Floor, M.G. Road, Kochi 682015
North-Eastern States Aquanus, Bhaskar Nagar, R.G. Baruah Road, Guwahati 781021
Uttar Pradesh Chintal House, First Floor, 16 Station Road, Lucknow 226001
Madhya Pradesh First Floor, 117 Zone 2, Maharana Pratap Nagar, Bhopal 462011
Punjab, Haryana, Himachal
Batra Building, Shop-cum-Office 101-103, Second floor, Sector
Pradesh,Jammu & Kashmir,
17D, Chandigarh
Chandigarh
Orissa 62, Forest Park, Bhubaneswar 751009
4
1
e
g
a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
Health Insurance Guide Book
Contact Details:
24 Hour Call Center Toll Free Number: 1800 103 5499 (Toll free)
24 hour call center Tel Number: +91-124-4285499 (Chargeable)
9 AM to 9 PM Cashless Number: +91-124-4722020 (Chargeable)
Fax Number: +91-124-4722000 To 06
E-Mail: healthclaims@iffcotokio.co.in
Website: www.iffcotokio.co.in
This docket contains:
1. Member ID cards.
2. List of Network Hospitals
3. List of Excluded Hospitals/Medical Practitioners.
We have taken every care to ensure accuracy of information on the Cards. However
you are requested to verify the same and in case of any discrepancy please get in touch
with us through any of the above contact modes
Please read and understand the following carefully. This helps you to get best
possible out of your policy and helps us in serving you better.
General
1. Excluded Hospitals / Medical Practitioners: Please note that the policy does
not pay for Cost of treatment (both cashless and reimbursement) pertaining to any
procedure or treatment undertaken by Insured Person(s) in any of the Hospital(s)
or from any of the Medical practitioner(s) specified in the list attached to this
Policy. The list of such excluded hospitals / Medical Practitioner(s) is dynamic
and hence may change from time to time. Hence we suggest you to please check
our website or contact our call centre / nearest office for updated list of such
excluded hospitals/ Medical Practitioner before admission/consultation.
2. Please keep your ID card and Policy copy handy with you. Quote the numbers in
all your correspondence. Produce the same to the hospital authorities at the time
of admission. Please also carry any other valid Photo ID Proof with you and
submit a photo copy of the same to the hospital.
If you are not in receipt of the ID card:
 Please call our call center and quote your policy number to get your
member ID
 Visit our website www.iffcotokio.co.in, click on Health Insurance
5
>>Claims >> Claims Serviced by IFFCO TOKIO directly >> Customer
1
Login. e
g
a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
 Your member ID is your Login Id and password. Go to the face-sheet and
click on the icon “print card”. You will be able to print an E-CARD.
Please refer to the annexure attached for further information on access to Your
Electronic Gateway.
3. Please inform IFFCO-TOKIO well in advance (at least 48 Hours before
admission) about the hospitalization (Within 24 hours of admission, in case of
Emergency Hospitalization). This ensures that the timely authorization for
cashless is provided and the admission would be hassle free.
4. Provide all necessary details to IFFCO-TOKIO, which helps us in assessing the
ailment and provide authorization quickly without a need to refer it back for
clarification. Compulsorily provide your contact details to IFFCO-TOKIO.
5. Please choose your hospital carefully. Please note that the most popular one
may not be the best for all procedures. Please also verify whether the hospital
qualifies for admission in terms of the definition provided in the policy. Standard
definition of the Hospital is provided here under for your ready reference.
Hospital: A hospital means any institution established for in-patient care and
day care treatment of illness and / or Injuries and which has been registered as a
Hospital with the local Authorities under the Clinical Establishments
(Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 or under the enactments specified under
Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act OR complies with all minimum criteria
as under:
- Has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock;
- Has at least 10 in-patient beds in towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and at
least 15
In-patient beds in all other places;
- Has qualified medical practitioner(s) in charge round the clock;
- Has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out;
- Maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the insurance company’s
authorized personnel.
Registration under various other entities like Shop and Establishment Act , Certificate by Chief
Medical officer (CMO) of the district hospital etc. will not be valid.
Enactments specified under the Schedule of section 56 (1) of the clinical Establishments
(Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 referred above.
1. The Andhra Pradesh Private Medical Care Establishments (Registration and
Regulation) Act, 2002.
2. The Bombay Nursing Homes Registration Act, 1949.
3. The Delhi Nursing Homes Registration Act, 1953.
4. The Madhya Pradesh Upcharya Griha Tatha Rujopchar Sanbabdu Sthapamaue
(Ragistrikaran Tatha Anugyapan) Adhiniyam, 1973.
5. The Manipur Homes and Clinics Registration Act, 1992.
6
6. The Nagaland Health Care Establishments Act, 1997.
1
7. The Orissa Clinical Establishments (Control and Regulation) Act, 1990.
e
g
8. The Punjab State Nursing Home Registration Act, 1991. a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
9. The West Bengal Clinical Establishments Act, 1950.
6. Please choose your room carefully within your entitled limit. Most of the
policies contain a Room Rent limit with proportionate deduction clause. In case
you avail a room higher than your eligibility, not only the excess room rent, but
many other expenses like diagnostic charges, consultant visits, OT charges etc
will be proportionately deducted. Please check your policy for the room rent
limit, if any.
7. Try to negotiate the best possible rates with the hospital for your treatment as if
you are un-insured. Please note that money saved for treatment will enhance your
balance Sum Insured which may be useful in future.
8. Please follow the instructions of the treating doctor meticulously and do not
forget to visit the doctor again as advised even though you feel that the illness is
fully cured
9. Some common ailments / procedures not covered under the policy
a. Correction of vision (Lasik or other similar surgery) / Keratoconus etc
and all types Laser treatments / surgeries for EYE which can be
performed on OPD basis
b. Therapies Like Cytotron Therapy, Rotational Field Quantum Magnetic
Resonance (RFQMR), EECP (Enhanced External Counter Pulsation)
Therapy, Chelation Therapy and similar, Hyperberic Oxygen Therapy and
similar
c. External durables like (but not limited to): CPAP, Nebulizing machine,
Oxygen cylinder, oxygen concentrator, ventilator
d. Intravitreal Injections / Interferon injections / Infliximab and like
injections / Intra-articular injections.
e. Oral Chemotherapy and Intravenous Chemotherapy where no monitoring
under Doctor Supervision is required in Hospital Setting. For example:
Intravenous Cyclophosphamide , Intravenous Methotraxamate, etc.
* Kindly refer policy document for complete list of exclusions
Cashless Claims:
1. It is our endeavor to provide you cashless service all the time. However,
please note that it may not be possible for IFFCO-TOKIO to provide
authorization for Cashless facility at times due to various reasons like:
 Where the intimation of claim/hospitalization has not been given in time.
 Where sufficient medical /past insurance details are not available.
7
 Where the reported symptoms /available medical inputs are inadequate
1
/incomplete to determine the liability of insurer.
e
g
 Where the reported ailment /treatment is excluded under the policy. a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
 Where the admission is primarily for investigation purpose.
 Where the admission is less than 24 hours duration except for day care
treatment as specifically stated in the policy.
 In case of personal information, policy and the coverage description
differs with records registered with us.
 Where the hospital is removed from the Network
 Where the hospital does not fit into the definition of hospital (Refer to
definition of hospital in policy).
 Where any information has been concealed or misrepresented on proposal
form available on record.
This is only an indicative list of reasons but not exhaustive. Cashless
authorization is done purely at the discretion of IFFCO TOKIO.
Please note that denial of cashless facility does not mean denial of treatment or
denial of claim. You may go ahead with the treatment, settle the bills with
hospital and claim for reimbursement of the expenses along with all necessary
documents. IFFCO-TOKIO will consider the claim as per the terms and
conditions of the policy and will settle the claim, if the same is admissible.
(Please refer to Dos and Don’ts for Reimbursement Claims for more
information)
2. Please note that Cashless facility shall be provided only if the hospital is in
IFFCO-TOKIO’s Network at the time of admission. For the updated list
please visit our website or call our call center or contact our neatest office.
3. In case your cashless authorization is delayed, please check with TPA desk of
hospital whether any queries raised by the Insurance Company are pending
for reply.
4. Demand for the copy of final cashless authorization / denial from insurance
company before making any payment to hospital and verify the same.
5. Please Inform IFFCO-TOKIO about the date and time of discharge as soon
as the same is confirmed by the hospital, so to facilitate smooth cashless final
approval. Please note it may take up to 4 Hrs to accord final cashless
settlement.
6. Please demand for and verify the duly completed Bill from the hospital and
sign the same, even though the same will be paid by us directly to the
Hospital. Any erroneous entry in the bill could eat away your precious sum
insured for the rest of the policy period.
8
7. Please collect copies of the Discharge Summary, Diagnostic Reports, Medical 1
e
advice, bill and Cash receipts from the hospital without fail for your record. g
a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
Reimbursement Claims
1. Please collect and preserve Discharge Summary, Reports, Prescriptions, Bills and
receipts in Original. Discharge summary and final bill should be as per the
guidelines prescribed by IRDA. You may download the same from our website.
2. Please note that all Bills and cash memos should be supported by the doctor’s
prescription.
3. All bills towards diagnostics should be supported by reports.
4. Submit all the documents in one go along with a duly filled in claim form and a
summary sheet within 30 days from completion of treatment or 90 days from
the date of discharge whichever is earlier. Following is an indicative list of
documents to be submitted:
a. Claim Form duly filled in and signed – As per prescribed format (Form B
to be filled in and signed by the Hospital authorities under seal)
b. Copy of Photo ID / Proof
c. Copy of Policy
d. Discharge Summary (Photo Copy in case of claim for Pre/Post
Hospitalization only)
e. Hospital Bill (Original Only)
f. Hospital Receipt (Original Only)
g. Investigation Reports with supporting prescriptions
h. Investigation Bills (Original Only)
i. Pharmacy Bills (Original Only)with supporting prescriptions
j. Any other Bills with supporting documents (Pl specify) (Original Only)
k. Summary of claim made providing details of Bill No, Date, Name of the
Biller and Amount
l. All previous treatment papers related to Ailment.
m. Registration Certificate of the Hospital under Clinical Establishment Act
or similar state act for medical establishments. Please note registration
under Shops and Establishment Act, Registration with CMO etc. are not
sufficient to meet the requirements of policy.
n. KYC (know your customer) form, if claim is more than 1 lac
o. Any other document (Pl specify)
5. If IFFCO-TOKIO seeks any further clarification or documents in support of the
claim, Please respond along with all supporting documents within 15 days from
the date of query.
9
6. Please quote Your ID card number and Policy Number in all correspondence.
1
e
g
a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
7. Please carry a copy of Sample Claim Form (Form A) along with you and get it
filled up by the hospital before discharge.
EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE SERVICES (ASSIST AMERICA)
Assist America is an emergency assistance service provider. In India, this service is
provided by AAEMSIL – Assist America Medical Services (India) Private Limited. It
provides identified emergency medical assistance and personal services to people
travelling more than 150 kilometers from their declared place of residence in India.
IFFCO TOKIO has tied up with AAEMSIL to provide some of the emergency assistance
services to its Individual Medishield, Swasthya Kavach and Comprehensive Accidental
Hospitalization Policy holders.
Assist America takes care of following emergency assistance services, wherever the
facility is extended under your policy
Medical Consultation, Evaluation and Referral
Emergency Medical Evacuation
Medical Repatriation
Transportation to Join Patient
Care and/or Transportation of Minor Children
Emergency Message Transmission
Return of Mortal Remains
Emergency Cash Coordination (Source of funds in solely responsibility of insured)
Note: The provision of the Emergency Medical or Personal Assistance Services to You during the Period
of Insurance by Emergency Assistance Service Provider does not necessarily mean that the
hospitalization claim is admissible under the Policy.
EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE SERVICES (Assist America) Telephone No: +91-40-
23300654 / 55
For more details, you may visit www.assistamerica.com or call Toll Free 1800 425 2955
YOUR HEALTH IS OUR HAPPINESS – WISHING YOU A LONG AND
HEALTHY LIFE
Disclaimer - This communication is only informative.
Please refer to policy document for full information and the
wording of policy (English Version) will only hold good for
all legal matters. Guide to Your Electronic Gateway
In our Endeavour to serve you better, we have created an electronic gate way to all your
requirements. This helps you to access most of your information with great ease like the
following.
1. Viewing and Printing of E-Card
2. Information on your Policy Terms and conditions
3. Updated Status on Your Claim
4. Guide Book
0
5. Network Hospital List
2
e
g
and many more….. a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
ANNEXURE
How to access the portal?
Please log in to our website – www.iffcotokio.co.in -> Health Insurance -> Claims
Please Click on “Claims Serviced by IFFCO TOKIO directly”
a) Please click on the relevant link to download any of the documents listed.
b) Please click on Customer Login Link to view your personal data or to print E-Card
1
2
e
g
a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
a) Your Login Name is your ID card Number as displayed on your ID card. In case you do not have ID
card Number, please contact our call centre at 18001035499.
b) Please enter the same ID as Your Password, if you are logging in for the first time. You will be
asked to change the password after the first log in. Please remember your password once it is
2
2
e
g
a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
changed. In case you forget the password please get in touch with our call center.
3
2
e
g
a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
4
2
e
g
a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
DAY CARE PROCEDURES
ENT: Operation of the ear Procedures on the digestive tract
1 Stapedotomy or Stapedectomy 82 Sclerotherapy
2 Myringoplasty (Type -I Tympanoplasty) 83 Therapeutic Ascitic Tapping
3 Tympanoplasty (closure of an eardrum perforation) 84 Endoscopic ligation /banding
4 Reconstruction and other Procedures of the auditory ossicles 85 Dilatation of digestive tract strictures
5 Myringotomy 86 Endoscopic ultrasonography and biopsy
6 Removal of a tympanic drain
7 Mastoidectomy Replacement of Gastrostomy tube
8 Reconstruction of the middle ear 87 Endoscopic decompression of colon
9 Fenestration of the inner ear 88 Therapeutic ERCP
89 Nissen fundoplication for Hiatus Hernia /Gastro esophageal reflux
10 Incision (opening) and destruction (elimination) of the inner ear Disease
90 Endoscopic Gastrostomy
ENT: Procedures on the nose & the nasal sinuses 91 Laparoscopic procedures e.g. colecystectomy, appendicectomy etc.
11 Excision and destruction of diseased tissue of the nose 92 Endoscopic Drainage of Pseudopancreatic cyst
12 Procedures on the turbinates (nasal concha) 93 Hernia Repair (Herniotomy / hernioraphhy / hernioplasty)
13 Nasal sinus aspiration Procedures on the female sexual organs
94 Incision of the ovary
ENT: Procedures on the tonsils & adenoids 95 Insufflation of the Fallopian tubes
14 Transoral incision and drainage of a pharyngeal abscess 96 Dilatation of the cervical canal
15 Tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy 97 Conisation of the uterine cervix
16 Excision and destruction of a lingual tonsil 98 Incision of the uterus (hysterotomy)
17 Quinsy drainage 99 Therapeutic curettage
100 Culdotomy
101 Local excision and destruction of diseased tissue of vagina and
OPTHALMOLOGY: Procedures on the eyes Pouch of Douglas
18 Incision of tear glands 102 Procedures on Bartholin’s glands (cyst)
19 Excision and destruction of diseased tissue of the eyelid 103 Endoscopic polypectomy
20 Procedures on the canthus and epicanthus 104 Myomectomy , hysterscopic or laparascopic biopsy or removal
21 Corrective surgery for entropion and ectropion
22 Corrective surgery for blepharoptosis Procedures on the prostate & seminal vesicles
23 Removal of a foreign body from the conjunctiva 105 Incision of the prostate
24 Removal of a foreign body from the cornea 106 Transurethral excision and destruction of prostate tissue
25 Incision of the cornea 107 Open surgical excision and destruction of prostate tissue
26 Procedures for pterygium 108 Radical prostatovesiculectomy
27 Removal of a foreign body from the lens of the eye 109 Incision and excision of periprostatic tissue
28 Removal of a foreign body from the posterior chamber of the eye
29 Removal of a foreign body from the orbit and eyeball Procedures on the scrotum & tunica vaginalis testis
30 Operation of cataract 110 Incision of the scrotum and tunica vaginalis testis
31 Chalazion removal 111 Operation on a testicular hydrocele
32 Glaucoma Surgery 112 Excision and destruction of diseased scrotal tissue
33 Surgery for Retinal detachment 113 Plastic reconstruction of the scrotum and tunica vaginalis testis
Procedures on the skin & subcutaneous tissues Procedures on the testes
34 Incision of a pilonidal sinus 114 Incision of the testes
35 Other incisions of the skin and subcutaneous tissues 115 Excision and destruction of diseased tissue of the testes
36 Surgical wound toilet (wound debridement) 116 Orchidectomy- Unilateral / Bilateral 5
37 Local excision or destruction of diseased tissue of the skin and
2
subcutanous tissues 117 Orchidopexy
38 Simple restoration of surface continuity of the skin and subcutanous e
g
tissues 118 Abdominal exploration in cryptorchidism a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
39 Free skin transplantation, donor site 119 Surgical repositioning of an abdominal testis
40 Free skin transplantation, recipient site 120 Reconstruction of the testis
41 Revision of skin plasty 121 Implantation, exchange and removal of a testicular prosthesis
42 Restoration and reconstruction of the skin and subcutanous tissues
43 Chemosurgery to the skin Procedures on the spermatic cord, epididymis and Ductus Deferans
44 Excision of Granuloma 122 Surgical treatment of a varicocele and hydrocele of spermatic cord
45 Incision and drainage of abscess 123 Excision in the area of the epididymis
124 Epididymectomy
Procedures on the tongue 125 Reconstruction of the spermatic cord
46 Incision, excision and destruction of diseased tissue of the tongue 126 Reconstruction of the ductus deferens and epididymis
47 Partial glossectomy
48 Glossectomy Procedures on the penis
49 Reconstruction of the tongue 127 Procedures on the foreskin
128 Local excision and destruction of diseased tissue of the penis
Procedures on the salivary glands & salivary ducts 129 Amputation of the penis
50 Incision and lancing of a salivary gland and a salivary duct 130 Plastic reconstruction of the penis
51 Excision of diseased tissue of a salivary gland and a salivary duct
52 Resection of a salivary gland Procedures on the urinary system
53 Reconstruction of a salivary gland and a salivary duct 131 Cystoscopical removal of stones
132 Lithotripsy
Procedures on the mouth & face 133 Haemodialysis
54 External incision and drainage in the region of the mouth, jaw and
face 134 PCNS (Percutaneous nephrostomy)
55 Incision of the hard and soft palate 135 PCNL (Percutanous Nephro-Lithotomy)
56 Excision and destruction of diseased hard and soft palate 136 Tran urethral resection of bladder tumor
57 Incision, excision and destruction in the mouth 137 Suprapubic cytostomy
58 Plastic surgery to the floor of the mouth
59 Palatoplasty Procedures of Respiratory System
138 Brochoscopic treatment of bleeding lesion
Trauma surgery and orthopaedics 139 Brochoscopic treatment of fistula /stenting
60 Incision on bone, septic and aseptic 140 Bronchoalveolar lavage & biopsy
61 Closed reduction on fracture, luxation or epiphyseolysis with
osteosynthesis 141 Direct Laryngoscopy with biopsy
62 Suture and other Procedures on tendons and tendon sheath 142 Therapeutic Pleural Tapping
63 Reduction of dislocation under GA
64 Arthroscopic knee aspiration Procedures of Heart and Blood vessels
65 Aspiration of hematoma 143 Coronary angiography (CAG)
66 Excision of dupuytren's contracture 144 Coronary Angioplasty (PTCA)
67 Carpal tunnel decompression 145 Insertion of filter in inferior vena cava
68 Surgery for ligament tear 146 TIPS procedure for portal hypertension
69 Surgery for meniscus tear 147 Blood transfusion for recipient
70 Surgery for hemoarthrosis/pyoarthrosis 148 Therapeutic Phlebotomy
71 Removal of fracture pins/nails 149 Pericardiocentesis
72 Removal of metal wire 150 Insertion of gel foam in artery or vein
73 Joint Aspiration - Daignostic / therapeutic 151 Carotid angioplasty
152 Renal angioplasty
Procedures on the breast 153 Varicose vein stripping or ligation
74 Incision of the breast 6
75 Procedures on the nipple OTHER Procedures 2
76 Excision of breast lump /Fibro adenoma 154 Radiotherapy for Cancer e
g
155 Cancer Chemotherapy a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
Procedures on the digestive tract 156 True cut Biopsy
77 Incision and excision of tissue in the perianal region 157 Endoscopic Foreign Body Removal
78 Surgical treatment of anal fistulas 158 Vaccination / Inoculation - Post Dog bite or Snake bite
79 Surgical treatment of haemorrhoids 159 Endoscopic placement/removal of stents
80 Division of the anal sphincter (sphincterotomy) 160 Tumor embolisation
81 Ultrasound guided aspirations 161 Aspiration of an internal abscess under ultrasound guidance
7
2
e
g
a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
LIST OF NON PAYABLE ITEMS
TOILETRIES/COSMETICS/ PERSONAL COMFORT OR CONVENIENCE ITEMS
1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM 41 GUEST SERVICES
2 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED) 42 BED PAN
3 BABY FOOD 43 BED UNDER PAD CHARGES
4 BABY UTILITES CHARGES 44 CAMERA COVER
5 BABY SET 45 CLINIPLAST
6 BABY BOTTLES 46 CREPE BANDAGE
7 BRUSH 47 CURAPORE
8 COSY TOWEL / TOWEL 48 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE
9 HAND WASH 49 DVD, CD CHARGES
10 M01STUR1SER PASTE BRUSH 50 EYELET COLLAR
11 POWDER 51 FACE MASK
12 RAZOR 52 FLEXI MASK
13 SHOE COVER 53 GAUSE SOFT
14 BEAUTY SERVICES 54 GAUZE
15 BELTS/ BRACES 55 HAND HOLDER
16 BUDS 56 HANSAPLAST/ADHESIVE BANDAGES
17 BARBER CHARGES 57 INFANT FOOD
18 CAPS 58 SLINGS
19 COLD PACK/HOT PACK ITEMS SPECIFIC ALL Y EXCLUDED IN THE POLICIES
20 CARRY BAGS 59 WEIGHT CONTROL PROGRAMS/ SUPPLIES/ SERVICES
60 COST OF SPECTACLES/ CONTACT LENSES/ HEARING AIDS
21 CRADLE CHARGES ETC
61 DENTAL TREATMENT EXPENSES THAT DO NOT REQUIRE
22 COMB HOSPITALISATION
23 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES ( for site
preparations) 62 HORMONE REPLACEMENT THERAPY
24 EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS 63 HOME VISIT CHARGES
64 INFERTILITY/ SUBFERTILITY/ ASSISTED CONCEPTION
25 EYE PAD PROCEDURE
65 OBESITY (INCLUDING MORBID OBESITY) TREATMENT IF
26 EYE SHEILD EXCLUDED IN POLICY
66 PSYCHIATRIC & PSYCHOSOMATIC DISORDERS Exclusion in
27 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES policy unless
28 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT'S DIET
PROVIDED 67 CORRECTIVE SURGERY FOR REFRACTIVE ERROR
8
BY HOSPITAL) 68 TREATMENT OF SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE2S
e
69 DONOR SCREENING CHARGES g
a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
29 FOOT COVER 70 ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES
71 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/ DIAGNOSTIC
30 GOWN PURPOSE
72 EXPENSES FOR INVESTIGATION/ TREATMENT
IRRELEVANT TO THE DISEASE FOR WHICH ADMITTED OR
31 LEGGINGS DIAGNOSED
73 ANY EXPENSES WHEN THE PATIENT IS DIAGNOSED WITH
RETRO VIRUS + OR SUFFERING FROM /HIV/ AIDS ETC IS
32 LAUNDRY CHARGES DETECTED/ DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY
33 MINERAL WATER 74 STEM CELL IMPLANTATION/ SURGERY and storage
ITEMS WHICH FORM PART OF HOSPITAL SERVICES
WHERE SEPARATE CONSUMABLES ARE NOT PA YABLE
34 OIL CHARGES BUT THE SER VICE IS
35 SANITARY PAD 75 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES
36 SLIPPERS 76 ARTHROSCOPY & ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS
37 TELEPHONE CHARGES 77 MICROSCOPE COVER
38 TISSUE PAPER 78 SURGICAL BLADES,HARMONIC SCALPEL,SHAVER
39 TOOTH PASTE 79 SURGICAL DRILL
40 TOOTH BRUSH 80 EYE KIT
81 EYE DRAPE 121 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE
82 X-RAY FILM 122 MAINTENANCE CHARGES
83 SPUTUM CUP 123 MEDICAL RECORDS
84 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES 124 PREPARATION CHARGES
85 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF
DONORS SAMPLES 125 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES
86 Antiseptic or disinfectant lotions Not Payable 126 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG
87 BAND AIDS, BANDAGES, STERLILE INJECTIONS,
NEEDLES, SYRINGES 127 WASHING CHARGES
88 COTTON 128 MEDICINE BOX
89 COTTON BANDAGE 129 MORTUARY CHARGES
90 MICROPORE/ SURGICAL TAPE 130 MEDICO LEGAL CASE CHARGES (MLC CHARGES)
91 BLADE EXTERNAL DURABLE DEVICES
92 APRON 131 WALKING AIDS CHARGES
93 TORNIQUET 132 BIPAP MACHINE
94 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE 133 COMMODE
95 URINE CONTAINER 134 CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS
ELEMENTS OF ROOM CHARGE 135 INFUSION PUMP
136 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE
96 LUXURY TAX HOSPITAL) 9
2
97 HVAC P a rt o f room cha rge not 137 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES
e
g
a
98 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES 138 SPACER P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
99 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE
ALSO CHARGED 139 SPIROMETRE
100 TELEVISION & AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES 140 SP02 PROBE
101 SURCHARGES 141 NEBULIZER KIT
102 ATTENDANT CHARGES 142 STEAM INHALER
103 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES 143 ARMSLING
104 CLEAN SHEET 144 THERMOMETER
105 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT 145 CERVICAL COLLAR
106 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET 146 SPLINT
ADMINISTRATIVE OR NON-MEDICAL CHARGES 147 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR
107 ADMISSION KIT 148 KNEE BRACES ( LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)
108 BIRTH CERTIFICATE 149 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER
109 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE
NATAL BOOKING CHARGES 150 LUMBOSACRAL BELT
110 CERTIFICATE CHARGES 151 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES
111 COURIER CHARGES 152 AMBULANCE COLLAR
112 CONVENYANCE CHARGES 153 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT
113 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES 154 MICROSHEILD
114 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES /
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 155 ABDOMINAL BINDER
115 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES ITEMS PAYABLE IF SUPPORTED BY A PRESCRIPTION
156 BETADINE \ HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\\
116 DAILY CHART CHARGES \DISINFECTANTS ETC
157 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING
117 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES CHARGES
118 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON
DISCHARGE 158 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES
119 FILE OPENING CHARGES 159 SUGAR FREE Tablets Payable -S u g a r free
120 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT
EXPLAINED) 160 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS
180 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT,
161 Digestion gels ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC]
162 ECG ELECTRODES 181 EXAMINATION GLOVES
163 GLOVES Sterilized Gloves 182 KIDNEY TRAY
164 HIV KIT 183 MASK
165 LISTERINE/ ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH 184 OUNCE GLASS
166 LOZENGES 185 OUTSTATION CONSULTANT'S/ SURGEON'S FEES
167 MOUTH PAINT 186 OXYGEN MASK
0
168 NEBULISATION KIT If used d u rin g 187 PAPER GLOVES 3
e
169 NOVARAPID 188 PELVIC TRACTION BELT g
a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
170 VOLINI GEL/ ANALGESIC GEL 189 REFERAL DOCTOR'S FEES
171 ZYTEE GEL 190 ACCU CHECK ( Glucometery/ Strips)
172 VACCINATION CHARGES Routine Vaccination not 191 PAN CAN
PART OF HOSPITAL'S OWN COSTS AND NOT PA
YA BLE 192 SOFNET
173 AHD 193 TROLLY COVER
174 ALCOHOL SWABES 194 UROMETER, URINE JUG
175 SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM 195 AMBULANCE
OTHERS 196 TEGADERM / VASOFIX SAFETY Payable - maximum o f 3
176 VACCINE CHARGES FOR BABY 197 URINE BAG
177 AESTHETIC TREATMENT / SURGERY 198 SOFTOVAC
178 TPA CHARGES 199 STOCKINGS Essential for case like
179 VISCO BELT CHARGES CABG etc. where it should be paid
1
3
e
g
a
P
Individual Medishield Insurance Policy
UIN:IRDA/NL-HLT/ITGI/P-H/V.I/51/14-15
Policy Wordings
Iffco Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.
